Accra - The International 
Monetary Fund said 

Ghana remains at a high risk of debt distress as the West African nation
 plans to clear arrears owed by energy utilities through the sale of a 
10 billion cedi ($2.3bn) local-currency bond. Ghana and the Washington-based lender are in talks over the terms of a
 three-year debt-support program that is scheduled to conclude in April 
2018 as the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer’s debt rose to 73% of gross domestic product at the end of last year. The 
government said last month that it may 

issue a bond through a special-purpose vehicle to clear the debts that 
the state-owned electricity company and petroleum service providers owe 
to banks and other credit providers. “The part of the bond used to finance the debt and arrears 
accumulated by the state-owned enterprises themselves would increase the
 stock of government debt,” the IMF said on Wednesday in an emailed 
response to questions. “Ghana remains at high risk of debt distress. 
Continued fiscal consolidation would be required to bring public sector 
debt on a clearly declining trajectory.” Finance Minister 


Ken Ofori-Atta didn’t answer calls seeking comment. Mustapha Hamid, a 
government spokesperson, didn’t immediately answer calls or respond to a 
request for comment by text message. Bank of Ghana Governor 


Ernest Addison, who was appointed in April, said last month that the 
bond sale wouldn’t add to the debt stock if the government issues it 
through a special purpose vehicle and uses energy sector levies to 
service it. “If that is done, then it might not necessarily be part of the 
government’s debt,” Addison told reporters on May 22. “It depends on how
 that is handled.” Discussions between the parties on how the bailout programme’s 
objective of lower public debt can be achieved are continuing, and 
include the possibility of extending the debt programme, the IMF said in 
the email. “Any extension would have to be requested by the Ghanaian 
authorities, and we understand they are considering the matter,” the 
lender said. Read Fin24's top stories trending on Twitter: Fin24’s top stories  