Johannesburg - Wool output in 

South Africa may surge about 50% from the lowest in a century as 
local prices climbed amid global supply that’s at a 70-year low, the 
head of the main industry body said. Production by South Africa, as well as the neighbouring countries of 
Namibia and Lesotho, could climb to 75 million kilograms in the next three years as consumers’ demand for apparel made 
from the fiber increases, Cape Wools CEO Louis de 
Beer said. “There is a market gap,” De Beer, whose company represents groups 
involved in producing, trading and processing wool, said on Tuesday. It 
“presents an unbelievable opportunity to increase South Africa’s export 
earnings.” Prices surged at the first auction of the season on August 16, with the
 Cape Wools Merino Indicator climbing 20% to R183.50
 a kilogram, boosted by demand from buyers in China, India and the Czech
 Republic, the association said. It eased to R180.92 at Wednesday’s 
sale, but is still higher than any since at least the 2007 season and is
 above the average of every year since 1971. Farming output contracted for eight consecutive quarters until the 
end of 2016 due to a 2015 drought that was the worst since records 
started more than a century earlier. Output decline After peaking at 148 million kilograms in 1966, southern African wool
 production has declined to about a third of that annually as the 
popularity of cheaper synthetic fibers climbed and as Australia, which 
supplies more than three-quarters of the fiber used in clothing, sold 
off stockpiles. Production in southern Africa rose 5.3% to 52.2 million 
kilograms in the 2017 season that ended in June, data on the Cape Wools 
website show. Of that, 45.9 million kilograms came from South Africa. 
The province with the biggest production is the Eastern Cape, 
responsible for about 30% of output. Producing a further 25 million kilograms could add about R2bn to the gross domestic product, using an average price of
R80 a kilogram, De Beer said. The country has about 15 million merino sheep, with Cape Wools 
estimating there are as many as 9 000 commercial producers and 50 000 
small-scale farmers. About 35% of production comes from the 
impoverished Eastern Cape province, De Beer said. Cape Wools is in talks with the government about providing more 
support to new farmers in the country with an unemployment rate of 28% and where the slow pace of transfer of land to black people 
following the end of white-minority rule in 1994 is a politically 
contentious issue. Most of the nation’s profitable farms are still 
white-owned. SUBSCRIBE FOR FREE UPDATE: Get Fin24's top morning business news and opinions in your inbox. Read Fin24's top stories trending on Twitter: Fin24’s top stories 